Q1.To Understand the concept of DevOps with related technologies.

Write the names of open source tools and no of phases of DevOps

1. Git
It is a free and open-source tool it is software for tracking changes in any set of files, usually
used for coordinating work among programmers collaboratively developing source code during
software development.

2. Jenkins
Jenkins is an automation server. It is an open-source tool written in Java. It helps many projects
in automating, building, and deploying.
Key features
● It helps in distributing the work on multiple machines and platforms.
● Supported operating systems are Windows, Mac OS X, and UNIX.

3. Docker
Docker is an open-source containerization platform. It enables developers to package
applications into containers. It can be used to package the application (for example, WAR file)
along with the dependencies to be used for deploying in different environments.

4. Ansible
This open-source tool provides software-related services like application deployment,
configuration management, etc.

Key features

● It provides agentless architecture.
● It is powerful because of its workflow. ● It is simple and easy to use.

1. Plan: In this stage, teams identify the business requirement and collect end-user
feedback. They create a project roadmap to maximize the business value and deliver
the desired product during this stage.

2. Code: Code development takes place at this stage. The development teams use
some tools and plugins like Git to streamline the development process, which helps
them avoid security flaws and lousy coding practices.

3. Build: In this stage, once developers finish their task, they commit the code to the
shared code repository using build tools like Maven and Gradle.

4. Test: Once the build is ready, it is deployed to the test environment first to perform
several types of testing like user acceptance test, security test, integration testing,
performance testing, etc., using tools like JUnit, Selenium, etc., to ensure software
quality.

5. Release: The build is ready to deploy in the production environment at this phase.
Once the build passes all tests, the operations team schedules the releases or deploys
multiple releases to production, depending on the organizational needs.

6. Deploy: In this stage, Infrastructure-as-Code helps build the production
environment and then releases the build with the help of different tools.

7. Operate: The release is live now to use by customers. The operations team at this
stage takes care of server configuring and provisioning using tools like Chef.

Q2.Install and configure Jenkins with necessary plugins.
-->You will be given .war file of Jenkins.You install it and install
few plugins also
